Wondery subscribers can listen to how I built this early and ad free right now. Join wondery in the Wondery app or on Apple Podcasts. Today's business travelers are finding that fitting in a little leisure time keeps them recharged and excited on work trips. I know this because whenever I travel for work, I always try and meet up with a friend to catch up, have a great dinner, or hit a museum wherever I am. So if you're traveling for work, go with the card that puts the travel in business travel the Delta Sky Miles platinum Business American Express card. If you travel, you know audible is the home of storytelling and it lets you enjoy all of your audio entertainment in one app. You'll always find the best of what you love or something new to discover. As an audible member, you can choose one title a month to keep from their entire catalog, including the latest bestsellers and new releases. In fact, I've been really into thrillers and true crime lately, and I just got back from a long car trip where I was listening to the latest zombie fallout book, bridging the gap, and I swear I had to keep checking the backseat for any glowing eyes as I drove home on that deserted highway. In fact, on so many of my journeys, audible is there for me. With comedy, bestsellers, history, exclusive originals, and more. New members can try audible free for 30 days. Visit audible.com built or textbuilt to 500 500 thats audible.com built or textbuilt to 500 500 the spirit of performance is what defines Acura and now its electric introducing the ZDX, Acuras most powerful suv yet, crafted using the same formula that brought them electrified supercars and multiple IMSA championships, the ZDX has track tested performance that packs an energy all its own. Unlock the energy and order yours at Acura. Hey, it's guy here. And before we start the show, I want to tell you about a super exciting thing we are launching on how I built this. So if you own your own business or trying to get one off the ground, we might put you on the show. Yes, on the show. And when you come on, you won't just be joining me, but you'll be speaking with some of our favorite former guests who also happen to be some of the greatest entrepreneurs on earth. And together, we'll answer your most pressing questions about launch, launching and growing your business. Imagine getting real time branding advice from Sunbum's Tom rinks or marketing tips from von Weaver of Uncle nearest whiskey. If you'd like to be considered, send us a 1 minute message that tells us about your business and the issues or questions that you'd like help with. And make sure to tell us how to reach you. Each week, we'll pick a few callers to join us on this show. You can send us a voice memo at hibtid dot wondery.com, or you can call 1804 331298 and leave a message there. That's 1804 331298. And that's it. Hope to hear from you soon. And we are so excited to have you come on the show. And now onto the show. Hello, and welcome to how I built this lab. I'm Guy Raz. So wherever you are right now, chances are there is a screen within arm's reach. Maybe it's a phone or a tablet or a smartwatch. And over the past decade, we've come to depend on these screens to conduct most of the business in our lives. Transportation, communication, scheduling, entertainment. We now do all of this pretty much on our screens. But what if you could do all of these things without the distraction of a screen? Well, that's the idea behind the humane AI pin. It's a little square device that can do many of the same things as our screen devices. Think of it a little like an AI assistant. The difference is the humane pin is controlled by the sound of your voice. The pin has a touchpad, a camera, a built in projector, and it's made to pin right to your clothes with a little magnet. The AI pin was created by humane co founders Imran Chaudhry and his wife, Bethany. Buongiorno, before they got into the world of artificial intelligence. The two of them worked at Apple, leading the design of some of the very screens I was just talking about. Imran started there first in the late 1990s, when working for Apple meant kind of being the underdog. Our team started by redefining what a Mac was by building Mac OS X. That just really had an eye towards how do you actually build a new type of computer that was easier to use, that wouldn't crash? Macs used to crash all the time back then, but that was our bootcamp. And then we got to work on things like multitouch, which went on to propel things like iPhone and iPad and watch all stuff that my team and I worked on. I mean, of course, there's the famous presentation that Steve Jobs gives and says, stylus. Who needs a stylus, right when you've got five digits on each hand? And that's something that you worked on. You worked on that touchscreen. The technology that enabled that yeah, absolutely. You know, I think that was the fundamental unlock for making the transition from remote interactions from a keyboard and mouse to really allowing people to do what we call direct manipulation. And that's literally just being able to touch the screen and have a far more intimate relationship with the things that you're really using on a day to day basis. Yeah. I mean, both of you were at Apple at just such an incredibly historic time. Bethany, you joined about ten years after Imran started, but still, I mean, right after the iPhone kind of shipped is when you joined, and soon, I guess, you were kind of put in charge as a project manager involved with the iPad. Yeah, I joined Apple in 2008 and I, you know, I was a BlackBerry user, I was a pc user. I didn't have an iPhone, but I had a lot of admiration for what they were doing. And a couple months after I joined the iPhone team, which was pretty small at the time, still, and still treated like a startup within the company and had, you know, a lot of secrecy around what that team was up to, a lot of locked doors where the teams were meeting and doing our work. But a couple months after I joined, they asked me if I would take on a new project. And at the time, they told me that they couldn't tell me what the project was, but that it would require that for the next year and a half to two years of my life, I would have to work many, many hours, and it would be really challenging and really difficult. And it was this new project that Steve wanted to do. They couldn't tell me what it was, but they would need to know in 24 hours if I would take it on. And so I said yes, and walked into a room, signed an NDA, and then they told me that I was going to be leading a project to build a tablet and bring together a group of engineers and work really closely with the design team and just figure out how we could make it possible. And that started that project for me. It's so interesting to me because, of course, Apple is, like, famously as secretive as, like, the Pentagon, right? And many companies talk about, like, breaking down silos and breaking down walls and creating cross collaboration, and Apple really took a. And has taken and continues to take a completely different approach, which is, it's very siloed. But I wonder, having been inside, it seems like it works like there is method to that madness and that kind of secrecy is probably necessary. Or do you think that that with some perspective looking back on it, it's sometimes a little bit too much? You know, there's some advantages. You get an amazing amount of focus, which is good. And I think the projects that I worked on were all essentially 1.0s that turned into something else, and that really siloed. Protected space allows for those kinds of things to happen. I think where it becomes difficult is when you come out of stealth, so to speak, you start to have to really need different functions of the organization to come in, and that's where it gets a little messy, because you don't have the relationships. Yeah, you don't. And I think some of us, over time at Apple, built those relationships, but in some cases, you'd end up with duplicative work that would build some animosity and things like that. So those are the things that you have to struggle with. And it's interesting, Bethany, I'm curious about your perspective, because obviously the two of you met at Apple and then fell in love and got married, and now here you are today. But when the two of you were both at Apple and a couple, did you, presumably you had to keep what you were working on from Imran and vice versa. You probably couldn't really talk about what you did. It would be like two people who work for the CIA. Well, actually, we had the good fortune that we were building basically everything together. There were very few things that Imran was working on, mainly that I didn't know about for the most part. He knew everything I was directly involved in. And actually, we met on my first day at Apple, and we didn't really like each other that much, mainly because we're polar opposites. My job was to make sure that things were on schedule and on time and that everybody was at the table and were having the right conversations. Imran's vision, my job was about pushing the boundaries of what's possible and what the world really needed in that moment. Yeah. And so we used to get into quite a few arguments, actually, and I would go up to him and say, imran, what are you doing? We can't do all of this, or this idea is too big or the team can't do it. And he would push back on me and say, well, we have to do it. You know, we have to make this happen. And have you tried this? His fate, his favorite line was, have they tried this? Have they tried this? And he was always right, which was always the really frustrating part of it in most moments. And so, yeah, we had the opportunity to build a lot of things together, whether it was new hardware and totally new product categories or software, things like FaceTime and iMessage you know, that were really complicated things for billions of people that involved a lot of challenges along the way. In 2016, you both left Apple, and presumably with the idea of maybe trying to create something yourselves. But was that the reason? Did it feel like. Did you feel like it was time to move on, that you'd done everything you wanted to do there? Yeah. You know, that equation of, like, why somebody decides to move on is always such a complicated one. I had an amazing opportunity there and was really blessed with the things that we were able to achieve around that time. We were working on iPhone X, which in and of itself is kind of like a bit of like a groundhog day thing, just a newer version of the same thing. Yeah, we definitely were some new things we were thinking about, but what I was really into was being able to push the limit of computers. And what I found for myself was that the environment had changed a bit, and I really needed to think about where else I'd want to go. I wasn't at all done in terms of thinking where I wanted to take compute, but I felt as if I had reached my personal limit at Apple because everything had really started to mature. Hmm. When the two of you decided to leave, tell me a little bit about some of the ideas that you had thought about things that you could do, because it wasn't what we are going to talk about. Humane AI wasn't the original idea you had. Maybe there was going to be a fitness app or a wellness app or a maternal care app. You guys had talked about a couple of different ideas, right? Yeah, we actually started ideating on a couple of ideas, and Imran took his passion and started really digging into AI, and this was in 2017. He was very passionate about it, and I really started to look into women's health. And it was something the other area that Imran and I were very interested in, mainly because women actually suffer because we were never really taught how our bodies work, and we don't have the right tools to be able to care for ourselves, ultimately. And so we essentially started building two prototypes, and we had one in the space of women's health, and the other was this idea that Imran was pushing around a new kind of computer. Imran, tell me about that idea that you had in mind. What were you thinking? Yeah, so, always was fascinated with AI, and when I was in high school, I had a job at a computer shop where I used to be able to get books and magazines and read them, and I used to read AI journals when I was in high school. And just be fascinated by that stuff. And a lot of it theoretically was something that was moving into a place of practice around that timeframe, 2017 or so, and sparked a lot of inspiration to say, hey, I actually really want to build a new kind of computer, something that is really going to help humanize the ability to be able to interact with AI. And around 2017, I was able to convince Bethany that if we started now that we would be where we needed to be by the time we'd be able to actually practice this stuff, which is kind of like right now. We're going to take a quick break, but when we come back, the dinner date that convinced one of the inventors of the touch screen to go screenless. Stay with us. I'm Guy Raj and you're listening to how I built this lab. Here on our show, we bring you tales of the long, sometimes really hard road to building a successful company. Of course, no two entrepreneurs journeys are exactly the same, but themes do emerge. One, theres no way they can do it alone. Another is how incredibly important it is for companies to keep their teams connected, no matter where they are in the world. Our sponsor, Atlassian knows this better than anyone. Their team has spent over 20 years creating software like Jira and confluence to make collaboration of any size and across any distance possible. Because Atlassian believes the best ideas are impossible alone. And look, there will always be challenges with distributed work. Our team here at how I built this might not be huge, we do a lot with a small group of hardworking people, but we really understand the importance of staying organized and having visibility across the team, especially when we're all working remotely. Having the right collaboration products can make all the difference. When you need to move quickly, work efficiently, and make informed decisions with their evidence based approach, Atlassian has a redefined collaboration for teams scattered across the globe. And if youre looking for solutions for your team, Atlassians suite of software is the foundation to help make the way you work that much more seamless. No matter where you are, your team can plan meticulously with Jira and create a knowledge base with confluence, turning ideas into action and brainstorming into breakthroughs. A world where distributed teams sink effortlessly, where the touch of innovation streamlines every project. Thats not a dream, its a reality. With Atlassian, whether your team is spread across the country or even the globe, delivering greatness is impossible alone. Learn more@atlassian.com thats Atlassian Atlassian as a business to business marketer, your needs are unique. B two b buying cycles are long and your customers face incredibly complex decisions. Isn't it time you had a marketing platform built specifically for you? LinkedIn ads empowers marketers with solutions for you and your customers. LinkedIn ads allow you to build the right relationships, drive results, and reach your customers. In a respectful environment, you'll be able to drive results with targeting and measurement tools built specifically specifically for B two B in technology, LinkedIn generated two to five times higher return on ad spend than other social media platforms. I've talked to hundreds of founders and business leaders every day on this show, and I've learned that LinkedIn has been vital to the growth of their companies. It helps them build relationships with customers and get direct access to thousands of decision makers. Make B two B marketing everything it can be and get a $100 credit on your next campaign. Go to LinkedIn.com built this to claim your credit. Thats LinkedIn.com builtthis terms and conditions apply. Picture that thing youve always wanted to learn. Now picture learning it from the person whos literally the best at it in the world. Thats what you get with Masterclass this year. Learn from the best to become your best with Masterclass. Dont just talk about improving. Masterclass helps you actually do it. There are over 200 classes to pick from, like Anna Wintours masterclass class on creativity and leadership. Thats helped lots of people learn new ways to nurture talent and make bold decisions, two things that are essential for any leader or entrepreneur. Plus, every new membership comes with a 30 day money back guarantee, so theres no risk. And right now, our listeners will get an additional 15% off an annual membership@masterclass.com. Built get 15% off right now@masterclass.com. Built Masterclass.com built Hey, welcome back to how I built this lab. I'm Guy Raz. So it's 2017, which is a really pivotal year for AI research. And Imran and Bethany are thinking about how their experience working for Apple might help launch their next venture. So, all right, so you knew that you wanted to do something around computing. Now you had, I mean, you were intimately involved in developing and helping to develop your names and patents around so many of the products we use. My Apple Watch, my iPhone. Like, you're in this thing. You had spent so much of your career working on screens, right? Things that we can look at. And so were you, I mean, already back in 2017, were you sort of saying a version of this to yourself, which is, can I make something that doesn't require a screen? Were you literally thinking that granular yeah, that's exactly right. Like, how do you actually elevate compute? Because, you know, I think smartphones are great. They're really, really great at what they can do now, but they're very limited in terms of how much more they can do. And if you think about if they're able to leverage some of these multimodal inputs that use text and voice and sound and image and eventually video, you need a new kind of computer that really allows for you to take advantage of that kind of processing. And at that point, you don't need to use screens the same way you need screens, because screens confirm everything that you're doing, whether you're typing in something properly or whether you've tapped the right button. But if you can actually take that away, take the burden of that away, you don't need a screen other than something for a lightweight confirmation, which is kind of the underpinnings of what we've built. Bethany, I gather after sort of a year and a half of consulting and considering maybe doing something in the women's health space, I think around 2018, you both agreed to pursue this. How did Imran describe what this product could be to you? Initially? Yeah, I had been out for the day, and I came home and he said, this is what we're going to build. He pulled out, he had made a one pager on the computer that basically described the vision for this operating system. And he said, this is what we need to do. And so I said, okay, well, let's start it. Let's see. Is it possible? And I'm the person who definitely questions sometimes, like, is this technically feasible? Like, are we going to be able to do this? What are the things that would prevent us from being successful? And so, and Imran is always ten to 100 steps ahead of me. So in his head, he already knows where we're going and what's possible and what's not. We definitely think about things in a different way. But that really started it once we said, okay, let's build some prototypes. Now, how specific was that one pager? Did it say a wearable device in the shape of a square with a camera? I mean, we'll get there, but how specific was it? He had a diagram of the device. He had a drawing that he had done that looks very much like it does today, with a couple minor exceptions. It even had the magnetic attachment and also had a description of what it would do. Like, here are the things that you would do with it. Here's what it has, what it doesn't, and I remember at the time, having worked on the iPhone and having had some experience there, my first thought was, this is impossible. To build a phone this small and to be a standalone device, you're talking about four radios. It has to have Bluetooth and Wifi and GPS and a pretty powerful chip to run what he wanted. Instinct was to say, this is impossible, but I also know my husband pretty well. So I said, okay, let's give it a go and see if we can prove it to ourselves, that we can rebuild this. Imran, at the time, in 2018, this is before chat GBT. Chat GBT. I mean, people are using it in so many different ways. Like, I'm going to Italy this summer, and I was like, give me the seven essential restaurants I need to eat at in Rome. And I gave it some parameters, and it's great. Okay. But in 2018, Chatgbt wasn't out yet. How confident did you feel that within the next three years that the things that you wanted this thing to do could be done? Pretty confident. I used to say this thing at Apple, you know, if you can dream it and if you can describe it, you can make it. And I don't think a lot of people, like, really believe that. But if you have those parameters in place and you understand how you get there and how long it's going to take, it's at a much larger scale than, say, a chef that imagines a recipe because they can taste the notes in their mouth imagining things. I sort of feel that way with this. This is the medium I understand the most. So when you guys embarked on this project, you really went underground. You kind of went underground. You had to. I mean, you had to operate like Apple, right? You had to be super secretive. What. What was that like? Basically going underground until 2023, when. When you kind of came. Came out of. Out of the underground and revealed this product, what. I mean, how did you operate? I mean, was it. You couldn't talk about this with anybody outside of the company? Yeah, it was a challenge because we also needed to hire. So we knew that there was a risk involved in sharing with people who were joining or thinking about joining what we were building. And so we actually, up until the fall of last year, every single person that joined humane didn't know what they were joining to build. We didn't even tell candidates what it was, which was kind of a radical decision, but we felt it was pretty important one to make sure they were joining for the right reasons, also to protect the idea, because it was still pretty. It's still pretty fragile in the early stages, but it was a challenge. And I think we also started building really in earnest in late, late 2018, early 2019, and we were self funding for a good amount of that time, up until the summer of 2019, and then at that point, started to bring a team together and only had a couple of months, really, of building together before COVID forced everybody into lockdown. So there were a number of challenges along the way that were hard for a startup. Tell me what the vision was as you continue to develop what this product would be. Imran, did you think, okay, I want this to be. And again, forgive me, because I'm oversimplifying it, I know it's much more complex, but just for the illustrative purposes, were you sort of thinking, okay, this will be, like the best personal assistant? How are you thinking about what this could do? Yeah, this was really more like a companion or an expert that you could take with you and this piece that would allow you to be liberated from having to really use a computer in a conventional way. You know, I think it's this always with you peace, that the moment you could think of something, it would allow you to act on it, and it was just always there. And the results that you would get would happen, I used to say, at the speed of thought. Right. And even mundane things like text messages would start to feel a lot more lightweight because of that. I want to just describe what it is for people who haven't seen it, the demos, but it's essentially, it's a square, a little sort of square, maybe this a little bit bigger than an apple Watch face, right? Yeah. And it sticks onto your clothing through a magnet, and it has a camera, so it can capture images, and it's got a cell phone, so you can wear earbuds or not. And then it has a projector that it can project, like text messages or other things on your hand. So it's got all of the more or less the things that your phone has. Right. But it's designed to answer questions. Walk me through what was the hardest. What's the hardest hurdle that you had to kind of overcome to pack all that in such a small, little package? Yeah. You know, I'd say the hardest part was really ensuring that everything was going to be something we could fit in. So we call that miniaturization, making all the components small enough so that they sit there and then making sure that they work well together. Like the laser display has its own challenges, and then the wireless power that allows you to not have the problems of a wearable that when you take it off, it's because the battery's dead and you can no longer use it. This allows you to keep going. Even that alone has its own challenges. But when you bring them all together, that interference, electrical interference, that happens. The management of the heat and the weight, all of the packaging aspects and the runtime issues, bringing it all together was the biggest challenge. Yeah. The first time I saw this product, the thing that seemed appealing about it to me was the absence of a screen. Right. I think that you were so good. You and your colleagues were so good at Apple. You designed such good products that it enabled many of us to become addicted. And it's really distressing, because I actually think that these products, as incredible as they are, I'm holding up an iPhone right now. And as life changing and groundbreaking as they are, have also changed our brain chemistry. You know, it's changed. My attention span has been dramatically affected by this. And as much as I try to build in, I have screen time on my phone. My phone turns off from six at night until seven in the morning. But then I find myself. It's like a smoker trying to sneak a cigarette. I find myself temporarily undoing that. On apps, the idea of a screenless thing just appeals to me on so many levels. And I wonder, how much were you motivated by having maybe some residual guilt over making something so good that it actually addicted people? When we left Apple, there was this moment where we were out to dinner, and there was a family sitting next to us at the dinner table. They had three kids, two parents, and all of them were on their phone, the entire family, and none of them were talking to each other. And I remember Imran looked at me and he said, man, you know, what we built was so incredible. But there have been some downsides that feel pretty heavy. And I think that, of course, that was something we were thinking about. And for me, I started doing some research on happiness, and I was really interested in the question of, you know, has it made us happier? And what is happiness, ultimately? And one of the things that I found in my research was that people reported higher levels of happiness when they were truly present in a moment. And I think that was something that Imran and I talked a lot about, which is, if being present truly in a moment does help you feel happier, how does that play into what we're building? And I think what we are building here is something that brings a lot of freedom and the ability to remain present. Yeah, I think the things that you were saying, guy, I think are things a lot of people struggle with. You've got this incredibly powerful tool that makes you more powerful or in the know, or you know where or connected. All of these tangents that come off, off of this tool that they just really. They enable certain characteristics. That is the piece that becomes addicting. You want to be more of that. You want to know more, you want to be able to speak out more. And so I think the trouble as a designer is that you really need to be able to be responsible for not only the tool, but, you know, how the tool is used and how the tool is sold and how the tool is actually safeguarded. Yeah. Even at Apple, I was the champion for do not disturb, and it was something that, you know, I added in because I had coexistence experiences like the one you described. There definitely are some. Some things that I wish didn't happen. Things like social media's prevalence, which exacerbates. I mean, that's really. It's not the iPhone. It's all the things on the iPhone. Yeah, exactly. The iPhone is an amazing tool. It's just the things that you're allowing onto the tool and doing on the tool are the things that are tough. And so, as Bethany mentioned, we certainly started to think about some of these things in a very different way in terms of how memories are formed. You know, when you. Even the act of taking a photograph with a large preview takes you out of the multisensory biology that allows you to form a memory. And that's because your concentration is more on trying to get the image than it is on actually experiencing the thing you're experiencing. We absolutely rely upon our devices as much as the air we breathe and the electricity that runs through our cities and homes. We can't really live without it. And what humane is really all about is taking a more considered look at what is that coexistence or that relationship with technology. What should it look like? It's something we think about all the time. We're going to take another quick break, but when we come back, how Bethany and Imran think about a business model that doesn't rely on a traditional App Store. Plus the humane AI pin in action. Stay with us. I'm Guy Raz, and you're listening to how I built this lab. This episode is sponsored by Squarespace. Squarespace is the all in one website platform for building your brand, engaging your customers, and growing your business online. So if you're running a business like the founders on this show, then you'll love some of Squarespaces features. Whether you sell physical goods, digital content, or services, squarespace has the tools you need to start selling online, including lots of payment options for customers at checkout as well as easy client. Squarespace also makes email campaigns super easy, with customizable email templates for converting subscribers into loyal customers. And Squarespace has tons of analytics so you know where all your site visits and sales are coming from. So check out squarespace.com for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com built to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. Weve all been there. Maybe we used one or two misleading words in a shared document and then the whole team spends a lot of wasted time trying to get on the same page. But we dont need to make those mistakes. Grammarly is a trusted AI writing partner that saves your company from miscommunication and all of the wasted time and money that goes with it. I spend a lot of time writing. I write scripts, emails, speeches, proposals, you name it. And Grammarly helps me find the right tone. It does so much more than correct grammar. It's almost like a trusted writing partner. And when every word your team writes is clear, concise, and on brand, everything gets better. Teams that communicate better with Grammarly report 52% less time spent writing sales emails and 66% less time spent editing marketing content. Join 70,000 teams who trust Grammarly to work faster and hit their goals while keeping their data secure. Learn more@Grammarly.com dot hey, welcome back to how I built this lab. I'm Guy Raz. So my guests today are Imran Chaudhry and Bethany Bonjourno, founders of Humane. They describe the company's first device as a wearable personal assistant, and they call it the humane AI pin. Bethany, I noticed you have one with you. Is it possible to just show us one thing on it, or is that possible? It might be hard to hear it. I'm wearing it on my, oh, I heard that. As a little speaker. Yeah, I heard that. Yeah. Can you ask it? Can you, I don't know, can you ask it to tell you something about me? Sure. Let me make sure my device is unlocked. Don't get my passcode. What time is it? 02:01 p.m.. Okay, what's the weather like outside? Making sure we're ready, checking weather. The current weather in San Francisco is partly sunny with a temperature of 54 degrees fahrenheit. Yep. Who is Guy Raz searching for Giraz? Guy Raz is an american journalist and podcaster known for his popular podcast such as how I built this until radio hour. That's so cool. I mean, a very narcissistic question for me to have you ask, but it's almost like that movie her, you know, it's like having. Right. Have you ever thought about that parallel? Yeah. And the thing about it is that, you know, obviously you can ask it very tactical things, right? So what's the weather like outside? What's going on this weekend in the city? But you could also ask it, you know, to store memories for you. And it really is about being your second brain. How does it do that? Yes. So, for me personally, the way that I use it is I ask it my AI, I ask it to remember my entire travel itinerary, where I'm going to be, when the hotel I'm staying at. Is this my room? Is this. So then if somebody asks me, like, hey, Bethany, can you do this thing on this date? I can say, am I going to be in San Francisco on this date? Right. And it tells me. But it's also not just for tactical things, right. I can use it as a live journal. I can have it record things in notes for me that I'm thinking about, make lists of places I want to go visit or things I need to talk to Imran about, which is one of my favorite things. So you treat it almost like your second brain, and what happens is that you create this incredible data set that's very personal, and it uses it, and it can use it to then offer suggestions. Now that I teach my AI everything it should know about me and everything it should know about my life when I'm in a new city and I say, hey, I have an hour, I'm in Tokyo, what should I do? It's using what it knows about me to offer suggestions, right? Or if I'm saying, hey, I'm in Tokyo and I need to buy a gift for Imran, what should I get him while I'm here? Now it's using what it knows about Imran that I've told it to help me figure out what to buy him. So this is the power of this very personal computer that we've built. I mean, Google has Gemini, and obviously there's chatgpt, and there's other platforms and operating systems. Does it use a specific one, or will it have access to all of. Is it a proprietary one? Yeah. So we will be using whatever's best based on what it is you're trying to do. And so our architecture allows for multiple models. Things are made by companies like OpenAI. We have a good relationship with the team there, and smaller models are things that are proprietary to us. And these will change and evolve over time. And we are able to add these into our operating system whenever we feel like there's a new type of capability. And that's key to how we've built not only the device, but also the operating system that runs underneath it. So when you, let's say, talking about it as a second brain, a memory tool, right. You can imagine just journaling, using it as a journal, right? You would say, hey, I just want to record my thoughts for now. What does it then do with that information? Like, it's stored somewhere in the cloud? And then what if you want to access that? Like, do you say, hey, can you, like, put my life story in a book? Like, what would you do with that? Yeah. So for right now, what you can do on the device is you can. With your. With your pin is you can ask it, right? So when I have it, remember all of my thoughts and all my notes and things I need to do and places I need to be, I can just speak to it. Like I would speak to a person. Right? Like, where. Where's Bryn's birthday party again? Like, oh, it's at the park. You told me it was at the park. Okay, it's at Rossi park. Great. And then you also can access all of your data on a website. So you have your own. Think of it like your own Google homepage that you go to. That's your personal page. That has all of your data. It has every question you've ever asked it. It has every answer it's ever given to you. It has every photo and video that you've ever taken, all of the data we've collected, and you can go in and view it. You could also delete your data. So let's say there's something that you don't want it to be there anymore. You can delete every individual query, or you can delete a certain note that you've created. And I think our vision has always been that we want to create a os that is very personal and that eventually you're building this really rich data set that you own, and it's yours. And eventually you can decide where your data goes. I don't mean to take this to a dark place, but I'm sure I'm not the first person whose head went to that black mirror episode where every memory was recorded. And then he picks the chip out of his head but, I mean, I see incredible value in being able to store memories. I guess part of me is just worried about the security side of that. But we already do store a lot of our memories, like Google Cloud, so that version of that already exists. Right. So I don't think it's, like, totally outrageous to be slightly concerned about securing this data. Right? Yeah. You know, I think you should be concerned, and I wish more people were concerned. And it's something that we care about a lot. We understand how this data has been used in the past. We believe that everything that you create or collect and store using your AI pin belongs to you and only you, and is something that only you should know about. We don't have a way to access your data. We don't use it in training or anything else. It's literally yours. And anytime you use it to access a memory, it's actually doing so in your own protected space. It's a foundational thing for us to protect people's data and to make sure that it's not being used by anyone. But, you know, we also. It was very intentional from the beginning that we didn't have a wake word. You know, we didn't want to build a device that was always listening. We're not recording at all. We're not recording from the cameras or the microphone unless you engage with the device. And when you do engage with it, you know, you heard the sound when I was using it before. When I engage with it, the LED turns on to tell you and everyone around you that the microphone is on. And that's something that we actually built into the hardware that the LED will turn on when the microphone's on, when the cameras are on. And that's something that was really important, that we wanted to be more transparent than the devices you have today. So your phone today, somebody could be sitting across from you, taking pictures of you, recording audio of you, and you would have no idea. It's not transparent at all. And Imran was pretty clear from the beginning that we care about this stuff, and it is important that privacy and transparency are at the forefront of it. And that's a big part of our ethos right now. The pin can't replace a smartphone because you can't order an Uber from it or transfer money on your bank account, for example. But do you imagine that it will be able to do all of the things that we've become, unfortunately, dependent on? I went to a coffee shop the other day, and I wanted a coffee, and I didn't bring my phone and I couldn't see the menu, and I was like, what do you guys have? And they're like, oh, just scan your phone. And I was like, I don't have my phone. So they were very kindly dictated the menu to me. But you know what I mean. Almost impossible to get through the day without a smartphone in most world today. Absolutely. I think people post COVID, the QR code is reigning supreme right now. And I think when you have a vision based computer like ours, you can play in that world. It works really well. But what we have here is, again, a computer that really allows you to have those kinds of interactions without you really being the driver of all that. You're just the person that takes the benefit from it. If you think about rideshare services, you can just say, hey, I need a car. And your AI understands, as Bethany was saying, where you need to be. And you could say, I need to get there quickly, versus I need to get there in the most cost efficient way. The device and the OS and the AI experience will figure that out for you. We do see there being a tremendous benefit for having these AI first interactions for these things that we do today, because they can help you out. It just feels more like an extension of you. Both of you guys are very intimately involved in this AI revolution that's happening and certainly centered around San Francisco. And there's very much been an open debate around where it's heading and what to expect. I understand that what you're working on and your sort of, the way you see your role in it is to create responsible AI technology. But just in general, where do you sort of stand on where this is headed? I mean, it's already growing and scaling at such a fast pace that it's hard for the people who have created this technology to even understand how quickly it's growing and how powerful it's becoming. And I wonder whether, like, I'm not smart enough to articulate why that scares me, but I can tell you that part of it does scare me, and I wonder, you guys are a lot smarter than me. Does any of that scare you? Yeah. You know, this is an accelerated pace unlike anything we've ever seen before. You take computer and you couple it to the Internet, and you add in the processing capability. I think what really needs to happen is there needs to be a good balance of making sure that bad things don't happen, and there needs to be an openness to allow for good things to happen. You need a way to make sure that these regulations keep people safe. But then don't stifle innovation. And the best way to do that is to involve the people that are really intimate in understanding how to do that. And we have been involved in a few conversations about shaping regulations around this, which we really appreciate, and we want to be able to be involved in a lot more. But you really do need that right now. This is not only something that's important on a regional or national level, it's also important on a global level. Bethany, I want to ask you a business related question. My assumption, I'm just going back to Apple, for example, as an example, but a huge source of Apple's revenue is the App Store, right? I mean, they have multiple revenue streams, the phones, the hardware, their software, the App Store. I mean, it's an incredible company in how they can really harness different ways of making money. You have a closed device, you will not have apps, right? So we will, or we do integrate with third parties, and we already have some that exist on our platform. There will be many, many more over time. And so the services side is also a part of the business. Right. So you'll have the device and then the monthly fee, which right now is low. And then over time, part of the business model will be, there will be apps available, and that could be another revenue stream. We see it a little bit differently in that the traditional idea of what an app is, is effectively going to disappear. And it kind of already has. And so for us, we work really closely with some third parties that run on our platform. There will be some that we don't need to have partnerships with, where we'll be using things that they have publicly available right now. We obviously, we still make money on the hardware, which is incredible. And over time, we're just going to be constantly shipping new experiences. And that's the beauty of having a lightweight client on the device backed by a really powerful cloud that can just continue to evolve over time. And you wake up and your device does something new. Just like you own a Tesla. You wake up. Your Tesla has a new software update, it has a new feature, it's the same model. And so what does success look like for you? That in the next sort of two to five years, I'm going to bring it back to something that Bethany said. When you feel like you have a better relationship with technology and you have people that are just generally happier, but then aren't forsaking a lot of the capabilities, that's when I think we'll feel really good about what we've done. To me, that's what success is is just having that impact of redefining our relationship with technology to make it better. Yeah. And I hope that our work inspires other people. We've already seen that kind of. We started this momentum in the AI hardware space, which is really exciting, and I think it will ultimately benefit all of us. And, you know, we are building something that we want too, right? We started building this because we wanted it in our life. And I think, of course, success for us means financial success. Of course that has to be a factor. We're building a business. That's a huge part of it. But I'll say that the thing for me personally that really impacts me is when even people who have pins today, our entire company has them, some friends and family have them. We're living with them day to day. But as we get ready to ship, we have channels internally at our company where people post, you know, photos, videos, experiences that they have with their device and kind of share their thoughts. And when I read ones that involve people talking about how they, you know, went away for the weekend with their family and they were able to capture all these moments and, you know, go to an event with their child and capture the entire thing, but, like, be able to look them in the eyes the whole time and stay really present in the moment. Those are the things that get me pretty emotional, honestly, because I do care a lot about the impact what we build has on people's day to day lives. Like that, for me, is a huge motivator every day. Bethany, Imran, thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks, guy. That's Bethany Bonjourno and Imran Chaudhry, founders of Humane. Thanks for listening to the show this week. Please make sure to click the follow button on your podcast app so you never miss an episode of the show. And as always, it's free. This episode was produced by JC Howard with music composed by Ramtin Arabley. It was edited by John Isabella with research help from Kerry Thompson. Our audio engineer was Neil Rauch. Our production team at how I built this includes Alex Chung, Carla Estevez, Casey Herman, Chris Messini, Catherine Seifer, Malia Agadello, Neva Grant, and Sam Paulsen. I'm Guy Raz and you've been listening to how I built this lab. If you like how I built this, you can listen early and ad free right now by joining Wondery in the Wondery app or on Apple Podcasts. Prime members can listen ad free on Amazon Music. Before you go, tell us about yourself by filling out a short survey@wondery.com. Survey. You know how to book flights and hotels. All you're missing is a tool to plan the travel experiences you'll have once you arrive. That's why you need Viator book guided tours, excursions and more in one place. There are over 300,000 travel experiences to choose from, so you can find something for everyone. And Viator offers free cancellation and 24/7 customer support for worry free travel. Download the Viator app now and use code Viator ten for 10% off your first booking in the app. Find travel experiences for you. Do more with Viator.