I pod peru anta anukunta and petagani layman terms lo chapalante it's about bitching. I can say it's about gossiping. Aya pa mahaty and a puzzle exercise. Interesting. Give it a listen. Now without any further ado let's jump into the topic. Anta anukunta ye pure nagani manachutu navi manda belief system validate jestunte Chala happy feeling Dhanik Sambani opposite Gayamana Jarina Question Jaisina Manandani Namadan ki prefer Jayo Asal Nijameto tells Kunamari akila friend Kirti Gurinji mastu bharagamatlanta pakinti sarada kodalo pedagayalanta anandgar kendra pulira jawado ama it's entertaining. As long as I am not involved, I don't care. Any inkopadimandik pass jaskuntar ivani individual level desa new pestai hara tilsa adola nayyapa temple Kirawadanaranta period slow on the ladies our time low ladies impure people consider jasunaranta and this is misogyny. This is patriarchy. Ani anta antan kuntu WhatsApp university we all know kotkiwalu alanaranta ilajasanaranta and chapte Nadwalu Daniputtu purvatra ladakatiskeli proves so they started going deep into the roots of this issue. Deep gave them that statement came from some other religion. Elder Sanjp they showed who made that statement in the court. So false statement and provision which is a bigger issue. Ladies ni ayapa temple ki rani wa kunda those lawyers went and brought the proofs. Please do bear with me. So adolani yenduku sabarimalakir awadhu anarante ayapa each phase of life temples dedicated to married phase law sati Samaya temples student phase londi Brahmacharyam fallout where any phases of life represent jaisunayapa temples everyone are allowed kani brahmacharyam follow other chandras are not allowed according to the dharma Shastra and present Jaiser Allah two types of brahmacharyam follows student phase lo walu delicate minds sikshanayaka vilu kawali and kunte piliches kochu kapranja second I paint naistika brahmacharyam vealantolante jeevitandam peli jaiskur wala mundu body low a chemistry jaragado puranalo bhishmudu anjane there are no rules but ayapa ke sadikadu he is a upakurvana brahmachari in that temple ultimately goodi is for the deity according to the deity only everyone should follow certain rules andikeya malaves kunawalugoda as a respect to him should follow up women have been told not to come idi okar reason rondo po intante ilanti paddhatulu ritri vazlu only sabarmala temple ke unna and imlait Sar India temple sannitki ilani strict rules and regulations according to the tantric regulations bled bodily waste like malamoothralu and lastly viriam I mean semen are prohibited in these temples irrespective of gender anyone with an open wound adi pillow dina pedodaina bleed out shouldnt be entering the tantric temple oka vela pasipilalu toilet poina dhabadagli raktam chindina gudimotham close jai shruti jay hinchali I mean purification start jai ali which is a separate talnopi and inconvenience for everyone unfortunately bleeding of blood restriction menstruation ladies like ten to 50 age group it's not good for the energy that should be going smoothly in the temple this is not a discrimination this is a rule book to follow on Jaipur and and ok the discrimination temple in fact it holds a Guinness book of world record for largest religious gathering of women ilana Assam lo kama khya temple periods I mean Nelasar in celebrate jesters Antae Kadeo Magalandhur Prati rule and regulation kyung backstory telskoni lakshala Gulun India avoided drama this is something that I always observe in men India gender specific things they are least interested to make a scene around it or fight for it but anyway matrita adama and japi case present jesar babu yep centuries back ras in a bukulo ila okay ade centuries back nunchi venaka rule aye backward cast it's not discrimination, it's a rule maggadu ani inko argument jaishir see mir gamaniste e argument logoda waka anta kulalani rani vadu rule it was not a tradition which is a clear cut discrimination see this proves again that Antalo Nijam maximum traditions I'm just putting out a case anta antani Nijal Adanta Okani beginning low Manishla Kinachakpote Kalamunduna Nijamura namaru Manolo Bayam Penchadaniki Nijantala Kunda dhaniki koshanjay kunda mosko nundaman chapadanki which is way more dangerous for progress. Mali ayapada matladam anyway matri Manachina puru related movies Sarad Babu is the hero in it. I used to love this movie graphics so wadiko samana chudali law makarajoti guru okapuru British fadu ila gumpuluga British this is the dangerous anta that I am talking about. Adi nijanga japtunawante cut to 2011 because people's lives are at stake in the high court walua Peru makara joti Anadi Akashanlo Kanpiche Nakshatra Velaku Ante Kondapina Mudipami irrigation project for which state high court also agreed and also Kerala tourism is a huge addition. So state court da nakato utiles in translog sink avaladu they refused to still believe the truth. She literally cried and refused to believe it. See ni name is Swamulani or Ayapani kinchapachatla. I have utmost respect for people who wear mala. In fact, this world would be a better place on amuta because of the discipline and the non violence path they take is crazy man. But facts are facts and mukyanga ladies hani antalon parties who functions, who pele la hundred times and there is no truth anymore, just perspective. New year resolution control I anta kabulu matladano japina and kota resolution adiyas kun follow. You will see how silent and better your life will get. Try jayan mari yepudu reality clarity antagada kota saram extension ga chinna exercise andalo vanavasamlo Bhaganga Badrachalo Nunchipasaro Sitama Yakara Chira Lakshman Reka Gisado Asal Ramud footprints Nunchi Ravanud Sitamaniya Prati Event Akade Original Walmiki Ramayana Sitamani Ratkail in the Dandakaranyam de Garuna Panchavati nunchanundi nasiklomandi yindikanta same ilana manawalu relax in a place and guhudu ganga nadi dhati de garay so basic ga Ramayanan Kisamani Major interval block antha badra chalan lo jarinda Anikantamandi lendant belief system Loner Mari Ronda lo yay antan I want this to be your first step towards the journey of believing in reality than the story itself. Have fun, guys. Do share it. If you want people to be more aware of these things, let me know. I'll be all ears. We'll meet you with the next pod. Bye.